


Network Working Group                                         W. Sanchez
Internet-Draft                                                  C. Daboo
Expires: May 4, 2009                                          Apple Inc.
                                                        October 31, 2008


                   WebDAV Current Principal Extension
               draft-sanchez-webdav-current-principal-02

Status of This Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on May 4, 2009.

Abstract

   This specification defines a new WebDAV property that allows clients
   to quickly determine the principal corresponding to the current
   authenticated user.












Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 1]

Internet-Draft          WebDAV Current Principal            October 2008


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
   2.  Conventions Used in This Document . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
   3.  DAV:current-user-principal  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4
   4.  Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
   5.  IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
   6.  Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
   7.  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
   Appendix A.  Change History (to be removed prior to
                publication as an RFC) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5








































Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft          WebDAV Current Principal            October 2008


1.  Introduction

   WebDAV [RFC4918] is an extension to HTTP [RFC2616] to support
   improved document authoring capabilities.  The WebDAV Access Control
   Protocol ("WebDAV ACL") [RFC3744] extension adds access control
   capabilities to WebDAV.  It introduces the concept of a "principal"
   resource, which is used to represent information about authenticated
   entities on the system.

   Some clients have a need to determine the [RFC3744] principal that a
   server is associating with the currently authenticated HTTP user.
   While [RFC3744] defines a DAV:current-user-privilege-set property for
   retrieving the privileges granted to that principal, there is no
   recommended way to identify the principal in question, which is
   necessary to perform other useful operations.  For example, a client
   may wish to determine which groups the current user is a member of,
   or modify a property of the principal resource associated with the
   current user.

   The DAV:principal-match REPORT provides some useful functionality,
   but there are common situations where the results from that query can
   be ambiguous.  For example, not only is an individual user principal
   returned, but also every group principal that the user is a member
   of, and there is no clear way to distinguish which is which.

   This specification proposes an extension to WebDAV ACL that adds a
   DAV:current-user-principal property to resources under access control
   on the server.  This property provides a URL to a principal resource
   corresponding to the currently authenticated user.  This allows a
   client to "bootstrap" itself by performing additional queries on the
   principal resource to obtain additional information from that
   resource, which is the purpose of this extension.  Note that while it
   is possible for multiple URLs to refer to the same principal
   resource, or for multiple principal resources to correspond to a
   single principal, this specification only allows for a single http(s)
   URL in the DAV:current-user-principal property.  If a client wishes
   to obtain alternate URLs for the principal, it can query the
   principal resource for this information; it is not the purpose of
   this extension to provide a complete list of such URLs, but simply to
   provide a means to locate a resource which contains that (and other)
   information.

2.  Conventions Used in This Document

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].




Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft          WebDAV Current Principal            October 2008


   When XML element types in the namespace "DAV:" are referenced in this
   document outside of the context of an XML fragment, the string "DAV:"
   will be prefixed to the element type names.

   Processing of XML by clients and servers MUST follow the rules
   defined in Section 17 of WebDAV [RFC4918].

   Some of the declarations refer to XML elements defined by WebDAV
   [RFC4918].

3.  DAV:current-user-principal

   Name:  current-user-principal

   Namespace:  DAV:

   Purpose:  Indicates a URL for the currently authenticated user's
      principal resource on the server.

   Value:  A single DAV:href or DAV:unauthenticated element.

   Protected:  This property is computed on a per-request basis, and
      therefore is protected.

   Description:  The DAV:current-user-principal property contains either
      a DAV:href or DAV:unauthenticated XML element.  The DAV:href
      element contains a URL to a principal resource corresponding to
      the currently authenticated user.  That URL MUST be one of the
      URLs in the DAV:principal-URL or DAV:alternate-URI-set properties
      defined on the principal resource and MUST be an http(s) scheme
      URL.  When authentication has not been done or has failed, this
      property MUST contain the DAV:unauthenticated pseudo-principal.

      In some cases there may be multiple principal resources
      corresponding to the same authenticated principal.  In that case
      the server is free to choose any one of the principal resource
      URIs for the value of the DAV:current-user-principal property.
      However, servers SHOULD be consistent and use the same principal
      resource URI for each authenticated principal.

   COPY/MOVE behavior:  This property is computed on a per-request
      basis, and is thus never copied or moved.

   Definition:

      <!ELEMENT current-user-principal (unauthenticated | href)>
      <!-- href value: a URL to a principal resource -->




Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 4]

Internet-Draft          WebDAV Current Principal            October 2008


   Example:

      <D:current-user-principal xmlns:D="DAV:">
        <D:href>/principals/users/cdaboo</D:href>
      </D:current-user-principal>

4.  Security Considerations

   This specification does not introduce any additional security issues
   beyond those defined for HTTP [RFC2616], WebDAV [RFC4918] and WebDAV
   ACL [RFC3744].

5.  IANA Considerations

   This document does not require any actions on the part of IANA.

6.  Acknowledgments

   This specification is based on discussions that took place within the
   Calendaring and Scheduling Consortium's CalDAV Technical Committee.
   The authors thank the participants of that group for their input.

   The authors thank Julian Reschke for his valuable input via the
   WebDAV working group mailing list.

7.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC2616]  Fielding, R., Gettys, J., Mogul, J., Frystyk, H.,
              Masinter, L., Leach, P., and T. Berners-Lee, "Hypertext
              Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1", RFC 2616, June 1999.

   [RFC3744]  Clemm, G., Reschke, J., Sedlar, E., and J. Whitehead, "Web
              Distributed Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)
              Access Control Protocol", RFC 3744, May 2004.

   [RFC4918]  Dusseault, L., "HTTP Extensions for Web Distributed
              Authoring and Versioning (WebDAV)", RFC 4918, June 2007.

Appendix A.  Change History (to be removed prior to publication as an
             RFC)

   Changes from -00:

   1.  Changed DAV:current-user-principal-resource to DAV:current-user-
       principal.



Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 5]

Internet-Draft          WebDAV Current Principal            October 2008


   2.  Correct DAV:current-user-principal element definition to use
       valid XML and not use the "DAV:" prefix for children.

   3.  Typo "DAV:unauthenticed" should be spelled "DAV:unauthenticated".

Authors' Addresses

   Wilfredo Sanchez
   Apple Inc.
   1 Infinite Loop
   Cupertino, CA  95014
   USA

   EMail: wsanchez@wsanchez.net
   URI:   http://www.apple.com/


   Cyrus Daboo
   Apple Inc.
   1 Infinite Loop
   Cupertino, CA  95014
   USA

   EMail: cyrus@daboo.name
   URI:   http://www.apple.com/


























Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 6]

Internet-Draft          WebDAV Current Principal            October 2008


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.












Sanchez & Daboo            Expires May 4, 2009                  [Page 7]

